Light Freshness: ASP.NET - 6 Security/Auth topics (#37148)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/identity-enable-qrcodes.md

---

> title: Enable QR code generation for TOTP authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Enable QR code generation for TOTP authenticator apps in ASP.NET Core
```
I think it is best in this case to leave "ASP.NET Core" in there to differentiate from similar topics that are not using this framework.

Author: The metadata criteria indicates the `title` attribute length should be 50 characters or less, which is why I made the adjustments. The publishing system essentially limits chars to 50 in the `title` proper. However, if the `titleSuffix` attribute is present, the total allowed chars increases to 65. You could add "ASP.NET Core" in the metadata `titleSuffix`. The preview text in search results would render as "Enable QR code generation for TOTP authentication - ASP.NET Core"  - Here's the criteria: [Metadata required for content > title](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/metadata-required-articles?branch=main#title) and [Rules for writing meta titles](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/help/platform/seo-meta-title?branch=main#rules-for-writing-meta-titles). I don't usually automatically add an article-level `titleSuffix` because sometimes the repo defines the attribute at the folder level or repo-level in a build JSON (docfx.json or similar).

ai-usage: ai-assisted
author: wadepickett
description: Discover how to enable QR code generation for time-based one-time password (TOTP) authenticator apps that work with ASP.NET Core two-factor authentication.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-2.1'
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 05/15/2026
ms.reviewer: wpickett
uid: security/authentication/identity-enable-qrcodes

# customer intent: As an ASP.NET developer, I want to enable QR code generation for TOTP authenticator apps, so I can support two-factor authentication.
---

# Enable QR code generation for TOTP authenticator apps in ASP.NET Core

ASP.NET Core includes support for authenticator applications for user authentication. Two-factor authentication (2FA) authenticator apps use a Time-based One-time Password Algorithm (TOTP), the industry-recommended approach for 2FA. (TOTP-based 2FA is preferred over SMS 2FA.) Users typically install the authenticator app on a smartphone. The app provides a 6 to 8 digit code that the user enters after they confirm their username and password. 

> > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!WARNING]
```
This is a security warning as opposed to a very important step.
